Configuring Scan Definitions
In this scenario, we have selected the
Basic Network Scan template definition
which, like all other templates,
comes preconfigured with default settings.
However, these defaults might not be
exactly what we are looking for
and we must take into consideration
our environment,
our time constraints,
and the target that will be scanned.
For this scan, we want to run an
initial basic port scan against ALL ports.
By default, the Basic Network Scan
will only scan the common ports.
To change this, we click the Discovery
link on the left side of the Settings tab.
From the “Scan Type” dropdown,
we’ll change the value to “Custom”.
This will add additional configurations
under Discovery.
Now we’ll click on “Port Scanning”
to configure the port range.
Here, we will set the “Port scan range”
to scan all ports.
In this scenario, we have chosen a scan
definition that will scan all TCP ports
via a SYN scan
but no UDP ports.
While this will increase
the speed of the scan,
we might miss crucial services
running on the target.
During an engagement, we must weigh
the stability of the target network,
the scope of the target,
the duration of the engagement,
and many other factors when
configuring our port scan options.
We also did not configure any credentials,
which means that this scan
will run unauthenticated
and brute forcing of user
credentials will not be enabled,
which is the default for
the Basic Network Scan.
Now that we have reviewed
the configuration options
and understand what
the scanner is going to do,
we can run our first scan.